# Commentary: The Materials Project: A materials genome approach to accelerating materials innovation
[URL](http://scitation.aip.org/content/aip/journal/aplmater/1/1/10.1063/1.4812323 "URL"), 2013, 102 citations
 
## Defect chemistry in layered transition-metal oxides from screened hybrid density functional calculations
[URL](http://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2014/ta/c4ta00673a "URL"), [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1412.5064 "PDF URL"), [Images](images/1412.5064 "Images"), 2014, 12 citations
 
>We report a comprehensive first\-principles study of the thermodynamics and transport of intrinsic point defects in layered oxide cathode materials LiMO2 \(M= Co, Ni\), using density\-functional theory and the HeydScuseriaErnzerhof screened hybrid functional. We find  ...
 
>>_TABLE II. Calculated formation enthalpies at 0 K, in eV per formula unit. Experimental values at 298 K are also included order, as evidenced by the local, rather than cooperative, observed Jahn\-Teller distortion.62 This obviously complicates comparison between calculated and observed bulk properties, including the band gap. Although this issue needs further investigations from both the computational and experimental sides, it does not play a crucial role in our discussion of the energetics of point defects in LiMO2. In fact, it has been observed that the defect formation energy at the Fermi level determined by the charge neutrality condition \(5\) is usually not sensitive to the calculated band gap, as long as the physics near the band edges is well reproduced by the calculations.46,63 B. Chemical potentials and phase stability Figure 3 shows the atomic chemical\-potential diagrams associated with LiMO2. In order to construct these diagrams, we explored and calculated all possible LiMO phases available in the Materials Project database.65 As mentioned in Sec. 2.2, the zero reference state of the oxygen chemical potential O is chosen to be half of the total energy of an isolated O2 molecule. In our calculations, the OO bond in an O2 molecule is 1.21  A, and the calculated binding energy with respect to spin\-polarized O atoms is 5.16 eV, in excellent agreement with the experimental binding energy of 5.12 eV.64 The range of Li, M, and O chemical potential values in which the host materials LiMO2 are thermodynamically stable, i.e., the shaded regions in Fig. 3, are defined by the competing LiMO phases that can be in thermodynamic equilibrium with LiMO2. The calculated formation enthalpies \(at 0 K\) of these phases and those of LiMO2 are listed in_
 
